All right so make a re consecutive to what we're doing here is where we're taking an array of numbers
and we're trying to find out if we were to sort it what would be the size of it.
What would you know how or meaning how many missing values do we have between the smallest and the largest
number so you'll see here we have 6 2 3 8.
And if we were which are return 3 because we're missing numbers for missing numbers 5 or missing number
7.
So the way that I solve this was I sort of an index of all right the way that I solve this was I sorted
the array so that we could keep track of what values were were missing because we have a number and
a max number.
And so I'm going to find them in I'm going to find the max is that will be how we know how many iterations
and where to start our FOR loop and if it's not included in there I use index of if negative 1 I just
increment a count by 1 and we finally return count.
That's really how I saw it.
I thought was pretty straightforward solution one thing I would change is this set of doing an index
of I would use includes.
I want to say when I first solve this index like two years ago includes wasn't part of the standard
javascript library that came in like 2016 which essentially finds out if a value exists before we used
to do index of when if it was negative 1 it would return and doesn't exist but instead includes just
returns a Boolean for when you want to do that.
So let's go ahead and create a count variable here or initialize it to zero at the end here and case
is we essentially just want to return count to find out if it's there.
Now we have to find out how to modify that.
Well before we do that I want to create a concept called sorted statues or sets the sequel to statues
which is a number array sort.
And we're going to sort it alphabetically a B now alphabetically numerically and we just want to return
A-minus B.
That will give us our sorted array and if I were to get it backwards which one goes first which are
in the second.
So what is sorted statues.
Just for a quick check.
So yeah that's in the right order as you can see 2 3 6 8.
Excellent.
So now that we have that we're going to then create a max value and value.
So Conte's then is equal.
We don't have to necessarily store these variables but I think it paints a little bit of a better picture.
So many value is going to be equal to the first value of the sorted statues excuse me sorted statues
and the max value will be equal to sorted statues and then sorted statues langue of minus one.
The very last value in the array.
All right.
Now that we have that all we have to do is iterate through our through our sorted statues and find out
you know what it is that we're what isn't in from minimax So we're going start off with that man right
with them in number and we're going to keep going until we're at the max number then we're going to
incremented by 1.
Now if Now again solve it the way I did it before statues on index of that value.
I know because these are just increments Gnome's is equal equal equal to negative 1.
We're going to go ahead and just say hey update count and we're done.
But again as I mentioned I think includes would be a much better way of doing this because that's really
what we're trying to find now we're trying to find out a boolean value here.
And so we're just going to say includes I.
If it is not true so go ahead and add that value.
So just go over the logic one last time.
We are going to go ahead and create a sort the array.
We're going to find the mean value the max value and then we're starting at the man we're going to iterate
through it up to that max value.
Find out if it's not in there.
And if it's not we're going to add one to account and then we're going to finally return it.